Chapter 1 Introduction

Data
	Some values referring to real world facts.
	May be in various formats, e.g., text, image, audio file, video file, etc.

Database
	A large collection of inter-related data.

Database management system (DBMS)
	DBMS = database(s) + a set of programs that store and access the data.

Applications (DBMS as agent)
	Banking
		Customers records 
		Login Password
		Transactions
		Account balance
	Airline
		Airport information
		Aircraft
		Flight (date, time, origin, destination)
		Customer record
		Booking
	Universities
		Student records
		Emails
		News and announcements
		University fee payment
		Course registration
		Borrowed books
	Social network
	Online Maps
	Smart card systems
	......

File system vs DBMS
	In the early days, application programs were built on top of file systems. (e.g., DOS, Windows file explorer)
	6 drawbacks of storing DB in file systems
		1.Difficulty in accessing data - May be inefficient to locate a piece of information.
		2.Data redundancy and inconsistency - Data got updated in one place but forget to update the other one.
		3.Data isolation - Because data are scattered in various files, and files may be in different formats, writing new programs to retrieve the appropriate data is difficult. 
		4.Atomicity problems - How can we ensure that a transfer of money is done completely? (What would happen if the system crashes right after money is deducted but not deposited?)
		5.Concurrent access anomalies - Inconsistency can occur, e.g., two customers reading and updating a balance at the same time.
			10:00 Roy opens the file.
			10:15 Boss opens the same file.
			11:00 Boss added one more customer “Ben” to the file and saved the file.
			12:00 Roy saves the file and overwrite the file boss saved.
			13:00 Boss open the file and found that “Ben” is not in the file.
		6.Integrity problem - Programmers need to enforce consistency constraints by adding appropriate code in the various application programs, which is hard to manage.
			A checker program has to be added before every withdraw and transfer transactions.

Big DBMS vendors: Oracle, IBM DB2, Microsoft, SAP Sybase etc.
Open source DBMS: PostgreSQL, MySQL

Handle all problems related to large DB management.
Convenient and efficient environment.
3 powerful concepts supported by a DBMS:
	1.Data abstraction
		1.Physical level
			Describes HOW the data are actually stored.
			Describes complex low-level data structures in detail.
			E.g. Actual data compressed or not? With what data compression scheme?
		2.Logical level -> Use it to model the information in the database.
			Describes WHAT data are stored. 
			Describes the relationship among data.
			Physical data independence
				Adding an index to speed up the access won't affect the data stored in the database.
				Compressing the data in the physical level also won't affect application programs or user interfaces.
		3.View level
			Describes only part of the entire DB.
			Different users should have different view to the database.
			It simplify users' interaction with the database system.
	2.Data modeling
	3.Database languages

